---
page_title: "Bowtie Provider"
description: |-
  The Bowtie provider for Terraform configures your Bowtie installation via native Terraform resources instead of the Controller web interface. Use the provider to declaratively manage API resources such as resource groups, DNS resources, user groups, and more.
  
  Note that you must configure appropriate credentials to authenticate with the Bowtie API before you can use this provider.
  
  For more documentation about installing and configuring Bowtie, refer to the official [Bowtie documentation](https://docs.bowtie.works/).
---

# Bowtie Provider

The Bowtie provider for Terraform configures your Bowtie installation via native Terraform resources instead of the Controller web interface. Use the provider to declaratively manage API resources such as resource groups, DNS resources, user groups, and more.

Note that you must configure appropriate credentials to authenticate with the Bowtie API before you can use this provider.

For more documentation about installing and configuring Bowtie, refer to the official [Bowtie documentation](https://docs.bowtie.works/).

## Environment Variables

!> The Bowtie provider requires valid credentials to perform API calls. Make sure that your username and password are set securely via either approach mentioned here. Setting credentials via plain values passed to the `bowtie { }` provider configuration block is supported, but discouraged.

In addition to the username and password parameters to the `bowtie` resource, you may also populate environment variables to authenticate calls to the Bowtie API.

To do so, set the `BOWTIE_USERNAME` and `BOWTIE_PASSWORD` environment variables and leave the `username` and `password` fields unset for the `bowtie { }` provider configuration block.

The target API endpoint can also be set via the `BOWTIE_HOST` environment variable.

You may also use [traditional Terraform variables with `TF_VAR` environment variables to inject configuration values](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/config/environment-variables#tf_var_name) depending on your preference.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Set your username and password by exporting credentials to the
# BOWTIE_USERNAME and BOWTIE_PASSWORD environment variables.

provider "bowtie" {
  host = "https://bowtie.example.com"
}

# Set your username and password by exporting credentials to the
# TF_VAR_bowtie_username and TF_VAR_bowtie_password environment
# variables. Note that you must also define these variables in
# `variable bowtie_username { }` and `variable bowtie_password { }`
# blocks.

provider "bowtie" {
  host     = "https://bowtie.example.com"
  username = var.bowtie_username
  password = var.bowtie_password
}

# Set your username and password with plaintext values (not recommended)

provider "bowtie" {
  host     = "https://bowtie.example.com"
  username = "example"
  password = "test1123"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `host` (String) The Bowtie HTTP Controller endpoint. Honors the `BOWTIE_HOST` environment variable if set. Example: `https://bowtie.example.com`
- `lazy_authentication` (Boolean) By default, the provider will authenticate to the Bowtie API just in time (or lazily) which permits use cases like creating Controllers in Terraform before using their API endpoints. Set this variable to `false` if you instead want to authenticate at the time the provider is configured - for example, to catch authentication errors up-front before starting an `apply` or `plan`.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Administrator password login credentials. Honors the `BOWTIE_PASSWORD` environment variable if set
- `username` (String) Administrator username/email login credentials. Honors the `BOWTIE_USERNAME` environment variable if set
