---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "bowtie_dns Resource - terraform-provider-bowtie"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Used to control organization DNS settings. bowtie_dns can enable resolution for internal names reachable over the private network tunnel.
---

# bowtie_dns (Resource)

Used to control organization DNS settings. `bowtie_dns` can enable resolution for internal names reachable over the private network tunnel.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Resolve `example.com` names using the DNS host at 192.0.2.1 but do
# not pass `wrong.example.com` upstream.

resource "bowtie_dns" "example" {
  name = "example.com"
  servers = [{
    addr = "192.0.2.1"
  }]
  excludes = [{
    name = "wrong.example.com"
  }]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The DNS zone name you wish to target. Example: `example.com`
- `servers` (Attributes List) Provider Metadata storing extra API data about the upstream servers for this domain (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--servers))

### Optional

- `excludes` (Attributes List) Names under this domain to exclude from resolution. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--excludes))
- `include_only_sites` (List of String) Limit name resolution for this domain only to these sites.
- `is_counted` (Boolean) Whether to only log metrics for this domain and not all requests.
- `is_dns64` (Boolean) Whether to resolve names using DNS64.
- `is_drop_a` (Boolean) Whether to drop A record responses from requests for this domain.
- `is_drop_all` (Boolean) Whether all record responses for this domain should be dropped.
- `is_log` (Boolean) Whether to log all requests for names in this domain.
- `is_search_domain` (Boolean) Whether this domain should be treated as a search domain.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) Internal resource ID.
- `last_updated` (String) Metadata about the last time a write API was called by this provider for this resource.

<a id="nestedatt--servers"></a>
### Nested Schema for `servers`

Required:

- `addr` (String) The IP address for this DNS server.

Read-Only:

- `id` (String) Internal resource ID.
- `order` (Number) The order for this DNS server.


<a id="nestedatt--excludes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `excludes`

Required:

- `name` (String) Name to exclude sending to the upstream server for resolution.

Read-Only:

- `id` (String) Internal resource ID.
- `order` (Number) Order when presented with other excluded names in the web interface

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import bowtie_dns.example 47480e17-e7a2-4f7d-a0c0-3db8fd86c4ff
```
